## Intro
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In scope of this project a Postgres database is created with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis. 

## Dataset
### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here is the filepath to a file in this dataset.
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json

Below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like:
```json
{
    "num_songs": 1, 
    "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", 
    "artist_latitude": null, 
    "artist_longitude": null, 
    "artist_location": "", 
    "artist_name": "Line Renaud", 
    "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", 
    "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", 
    "duration": 152.92036, 
    "year": 0
}
```
###Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.

## Database Schema design
Created a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis using the song and log datasets. This includes the following tables.

### Fact Table
**songplays** - records in log data associated with song plays


### Dimension Tables

**users** - users in the app
**songs** - songs in music database
**artists** - artists in music database
**time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units

## ETL 
1. Created **songs**, **artist** dimension tables and filled with data from extracting Song Dataset.
2. Created **users**, **time** dimension tables and filled with data from extracting Log Dataset.
3. Created **songplays** fact table and filled with data from the dimension tables created earlier and Log Dataset. 

## Installation

Install PostgreSQL database drivers by using the below command
```bash
pip3 install psycopg2
```
## Usage
1. **sql_queries.py**: contains all SQL queries of the project and this file can be used in multiple files.
2. **create_tables.py**: run this file after writing for creating tables for the project.
3. **etl.ipynb**: reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
4. **etl.py**:   read  and process files from song_data and log_data and load them to tables. 
5. **test.py**: displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.

## execute files in the below order each time before pipeline.

   1. create_tables.py
      ```python
         $ python3 create_tables.py
   2. etl.ipynb/etl.py
      ```python
         $ python3 etl.py
   3. test.ipynb

## Queries examples 


